# solar-optimization
In this project, we are trying to create a model to optimize the energy consumption and production of a solar power vehicle along a route/trip. Our project originated as a way to get our solar car to win the 2022 American Solar Car Challenge. Solar cars consume energy by moving and transporting their passengers and cargo, to get an accurate estimate we need to add in different factors such as rolling resistance, cargo weight, and battery and motor efficiency losses that cause them to use up their energy and estimate the factors that allow for energy production such as wind speed and direction, cloudcover, altitude, and solar irradiance [1]. This model was generated first by mapping out all of the different variables and where in the calculation they would lie. Then literature reviews were carried out to find specifics such as rolling resistance among different road surfaces. After that we took data that was either hand gathered or from APIs, (Application Programming Interfaces) which is a software that allows two different softwares to interact, that allows for any data to be input and calculated from the model, including location, altitude, and weather data. Our model allows a user to input data that changes among trips to calculate how a solar vehicle will perform in different conditions. This model can be used for electric vehicles and solar vehicles. By showing the user how much energy they would expend at different stages of their route we can allow for a more accurate measurement of how much energy they would have at different points along the route. The user can decide to slow down in areas with higher solar irradiance and better weather conditions to charge their vehicle more and speed up in areas with inclement weather to reach a more favorable location. 
